before I go over the basic functionality of the share editor.
I want to quickly mention some things about the render engines
blenders owned to render engine cycles and EBI are designed to
be able to interpret the same material with a very similar result
however, because they work in a fundamentally different way,
some features are missing completely from one or the
other or have to be faked and look different.
The most striking difference looking at the example seen is that
cycles allows for shader based displacement while Evie does not.
And this course cycles will be used as the target engine for rendering
and Evie will be used for immediate preview and real time interactivity.
That is a very powerful workflow especially for
creating traders as you get immediate feedback while
you are changing values around which is something
we will be doing a lot in this course
when you choose cycles as your engine in the render settings,
you can get the E V preview with a
neutral lighting environment by holding that and choosing material preview
and the cycles preview is in the rendered view.
This way you can comfortably work in
the material preview while rendering in cycles.
So let's go over how to use the shader editor as
this is the environment that we will be working in.
I will be mentioning a lot of its functionality so you can get
the full picture but don't worry if you don't pick up everything immediately,
there will be plenty of opportunities to
get familiar with it throughout this course,
materials and blender are represented by no trees which
can be displayed and edited in the shadow editor
and no tree is a network of nodes where each note represents a fragment
of a shader that can be connected to other notes through inputs and outputs.
These connections carry information through the no
tree until it reaches a material output.
There are different types of information that is processed by the nodes.
The type provided by an output or required by an
input can easily be identified by the sockets color.
There are values gray colors, yellow vectors, blue and shader is green.
If you try to connect sockets with a different type,
blender will try to convert between the types
except for the shakers.
This conversion actually works back and forth between all types.
I will explain what these conversions mean. In the coming chapters,
you can add a note just like you can add anything else in blender
by pressing shift plus A and then choosing it from a selection of categories.
You can also use the search bar to find a specific note by name.
Also parallel to blenders.
Standard key map, you can duplicate notes by pressing shift plus D.
Connections are simply made by dragging them between
the sockets or selecting the notes and pressing F
to delete the connection.
You can just pluck it out of its socket and let go on an empty space or
you can cut the connection by holding down
control and dragging with the right mouse button pressed
to remove a note in between two notes without breaking the connection.
You can hold down alt and drag the note away.
In the same way you can drag a note onto
a connection and it will be inserted at that position.
When you drag with the left mouse button pressed,
you can use the tool that is selected in the toolbar
and that is usually the selection tool
by standard. It is set to box selection but you can choose any other method
to organize the nodes.
You can use the regular keys for transforming and blender, G R and S for grabbing,
rotating and scaling
Also A and also A for selecting and de selecting all nodes and X or Dell to the lead.
Work the same way as everywhere in blender.
If you want to delete a note while reconnecting the notes before and after.
You can simply delete it while holding down control
instead of deleting the note,
you can also temporarily disable or muted by pressing em
that will ignore it completely and pass through the
information like you can see from the red line
to make the no tree a bit more readable.
You can collapse or high notes by pressing age or even better hide unused
sockets by pressing control plus H to undo it just press it again.
Another very useful feature to keep the note
tree organized is setting a reroute note.
This is a simple pass through node that is just displayed as a single socket and can be
used to bundle multiple connections from the same socket
and structure the visual flow of the notary.
You can simply insert reroute notes by holding down shift
and dragging over a connection with the right mouse button pressed
to group together a segment of notes.
You can press control Plus G, which creates a note group.
This is a custom node which uses the external connections as inputs and outputs.
The main indicator that you are currently within
a note group is the green background.
You can enter a note group by pressing tab and exited by pressing control plus tab.
You can give you a note group a name by typing it into this text field here.
However, any single note can also be labeled in the properties window on the right.
The note group can be dissolved by pressing control plus out Plus G.
To only visually group notes.
You can create a frame and add the notes to it by dragging them inside
at this point I want to recommend you to enable the note Wrangler add on by
Greg cell which extends blender with a wide
variety of useful conveniences for an efficient noting workflow
it chips with blenders so you don't have to install anything Additionally,
you can simply activate it by going to the preferences under the adults tab
and searching for its name in the search bar.
I will be using it constantly throughout this course and cannot stress
enough how much time it saves to include it in your workflow.
Let's quickly go over some of its most useful features
by far the most essential functionality of the note Wrangler is the viewer Note.
When you hold down shift and control clicking on any
node will connect the material output to this node.
That enables you to preview any part of the notary
very easily and is essential for a good workflow.
If the note has multiple outputs repeatedly clicking on,
it will cycle through them.
Another very useful functionality is lazy connect
by simply holding down alt and dragging with the right mouse button pressed.
You can connect to nodes without carefully hitting the sockets with the cursor.
That feature will automatically try to connect
the right sockets by checking the type.
But if you want to connect specific sockets,
you can just instead hold down all plus shift while dragging between the
notes to get a menu of which output to connect to which input.
Other options that I use a lot are swapping out
a note for a different one with shift plus S,
which attempts to maintain the connection structure and using shift
plus P to create a frame around multiple notes,
which helps with the readability of the note tree.
These were the features that I personally use the most but
I recommend looking at the full feature overview on Greg's.
I'll that gets up Daddio forward slash note Wrangler.